This script has been provided by Vincent Liegeois University Namur.
vincent.liegeois@unamur.be


The program is made of two parts: 

1) Gaussian2gimic.py which is the main program
2) BasisSet.py which is a module file containing the functions to read the basis set and to do the transformations from Spherical to Cartesian.
This file just need to be put in the same directory as Gaussian2gimic.py

Gaussian2gimic.py use optionparser to sets its different options.
Therefore, « Gaussian2gimic.py -h » will give you the full description.

There is only two options, only one of them is required.
  The command line to run the program on a formatted checkpoint file from gaussian is the following:

Gaussian2gimic.py -i file.fchk

This will produce two files: XDENS and MOL files

The extra option is -t followed by a XDENS coming from turbo2gimic.py

Gaussian2gimic.py -i file.fchk -t XDENS_turbo

This will, in addition to creating XDENS and MOL files, print in the standard output (on the terminal) a comparison with the values obtained from gaussian and from turbomole.
This is intended as a way to control that both numbers are similar.


For example, for a calculation on paranitroaniline with HF/6-311G(2df,2pd), the maximum error on the density matrix is 5.8E-5 while the maximum errors on the perturbed density matrices are 2.1e-2, 2.6e-2, 5.0e-2.

For the same molecule but with HF/cc-pVTZ, the maximum errors are: 4.8e-5, 2.5e-2, 5.4e-2, 7.8e-2.

ATTENTION, to have these agreements with turbomole, one need to specify "int=NoBasisTransform » in the Gaussian NMR calculation in order to prevent Gaussian from transforming the generalized contraction basis sets.


At last, the MOL file produced by Gaussian2gimic is slightly different from the one obtained by turbo2gimic.`

Indeed, turbo2gimic gives the basis set exactly as obtained on https://bse.pnl.gov/bse/portal with « optimized general contractions » checked.
BUT, the coefficients are not normalized with  « optimized general contractions » checked. but are normalized with « optimized general contractions » unchecked.

As an example, the first atomic orbital for cc-pVTZ basis set for the C with  « optimized general contractions » checked consist of a contraction of 8 GTOs while there are 10 GTOs in the contraction if « optimized general contractions » is unchecked.
The coefficients given in the website and in turbo2gimic are optimized for the contraction of the 10 GTOs not the 8.
Gaussian and therefore Gaussian2gimic gives the coefficients that are normalized for the contraction of the 8 GTOs.

To do:

Can you check that this has no influence in GIMIC?

